OK.
So the next property goes hand-in-hand with flex spaces is called Flex grow.
So imagine that we have we've assigned to flex bases let's say 100 pixels to a couple of different things
and we've put them in a container so the flex bases is the ideal size before they go in.
But there's a bunch of extra space.
Do we want that extra space to be taken up.
And if we do how do we assign is it evenly split up or does the middle section get all of it and everything
else gets none of it.
You see where I'm going with this.
That's what flex growth dictates.
It allows us to specify how the unused space should be spread amongst flex items.
And it comes down to ratios.
So I'll explain the math in just a bit.
So here's flex grow again.
If we assign a number like flex grow one to everything all boxes they will take up that even or they
will evenly divide the space amongst them and this number could be anything as long as they have the
same number.
So I could have said flex grow 99 as long as they don't have flex grow something else set anywhere else
and they all are sharing that same number.
The ratio is the exact same so they split it up evenly.
So here's another example I get that flex grow one for all boxes but then override that for the middle
one and set flex grow equal to 2.
And what it will do is it will take that unused space and get two times as much compared to the others.
But I should point out in this case it does happen that it is twice as large but this does not mean
make this box twice as large as the other boxes.
It means use twice as much of the available space as the other boxes.
So it does not mean double in size like if it was 500 pixels it won't automatically become 1000 pixels
it just depends how much space is available.
So let me show you again here.
Just hitting the point home that its about the ratio using 9 and 8 instead of 1 and 2.
Same idea.
So the math.
Okay here's a container.
1000 pixels.
We have two things that have a with or more accurately it should be like spaces set to 100 pixels.
So they take up 100 pixels at the beginning meaning we have eight hundred pixels of free space.
So if I don't set flex grow this is what we'll see.
But if I do assign them a flex grow let's say flex grow of one.
Both of them.
That means they share this space evenly.
So there's 800 pixels so we cut it in half and 400 goes to this guy and 400 goes to this guy.
So they end up as 500 pixels each.
OK.
But then here's another example.
In this case what I've done is I start off as 100 pixels each but I've assigned flex grow one to this
one and flex go up 4 to this one here.
Now the first thing I want you to notice it is not four times as large as this guy.
I think it's closer to 2.8 or three times as large.
I just did the math.
But essentially what's happening if we go back we have 800 pixels or free space and we have flex growth
for an Flexcar of 1.
You can add those together.
Meaning that we're going to split that free space into five chunks.
So one two three four five each one whatever eight 800 divided by five is gets what 160 or so.
Yep it 260.
So five sections of 160 pixels are left and one of them goes to this guy and four of them go to this
guy.
So again it's not four times as large.
It's all about the extra unused space.
So let's play around with it.
Here we are.
Let's assign flex basis to all of our boxes we have four of them let's do 200 pixels OK.
So they take up roughly 800 pixels.
So if we go down here and let's say I want them all to grow evenly to take up this space and share it
amongst them I just can assign flex grow to be any number as long as they all share it.
And the easiest one is one.
So now they split up that space evenly and they all grow together.
So they're no longer 200 pixels.
If we inspect them in our case they are 306 pixels each one.
So what we could do is also come down here.
And if I didn't assign Flexer one to all of them I could give flex grow 1 to the first box.
What do you think will happen.
It gets all of this space because the default value is flex grow zero.
So none of these take up any of that unused space just box 1 does.
So it grows to encompass all of that space and it gets a lot larger.
OK.
So a common use case though has to do something like this will set flex grow.
Let's go to a parks to give that a flex grow of two.
So it gets twice as much space as these other three.
But you'll notice it barely gets bigger but it's getting double the space that these other ones get
from its share of go back to it.
Oh what do you.
Get from this space here.
So it got split up into five portions.
This one this got one this got two portions and this got one as well.
OK.
So that's the very basics of flex grow.
It does apply also to columns of course.
So if we change this to a column layout and I'm actually going to open this in a separate full page.
OK.
So I've switched over to a column layout.
I didn't change anything else but I'm going to call them up just to show you that the same thing works
with like scroll.
I've decided to split it over here in the left just because it's hard to show columns in this little
preview done here.
OK.
So what I've done or what I'm going to do is come up here.
You can give it a flex basis of let's say 150 pixels have to refresh.
OK.
So first thing you might notice is there's a little space here.
So let's say I want box for to grow to encompass all that additional space whenever there is additional
space.
So I can come up or you come down to box four and just say flex grow is one refresh and box for grows
to encompass all that space.
So whenever there's free space box for gets it all however much there is.
So if I zoom way out not much free space but now there's a ton and it all goes to four but I could change
that of course I could give everything a 5 0 of one.
And I'm very zoomed out but I'm giving all boxes like Seagrove on and then I'm going to give box one
flex grow of three OK.
So here's where they start.
And now there's a bunch of whitespace coming and I have to refresh the page.
OK.
So there's a bunch of whitespace and it's being distributed across all of them.
So this gets one share one chair one chair and then this gets three shares of the white space so gross
three times as fast.
Not necessarily three times as large.
OK.
So you get it by now.
That's flex grow the last component we need to look at is flex shrink.
And so I'll show you that in the next video and I'll show you how to combine that with flex pro and
flex bases using the shorthand flex almost there promise.